oop: adds intro-to-oop, intro-to-oop-contd, python-oop, oop-relationships. (#42)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-unit-1: intro-to-object-oriented-programming/defining-classes.md

# Defining Classes

## Learning Goals

- Define a class
- Apply the ideas of "state" and "behavior" in OOP to classes

## Vocabulary and Synonyms

> | Vocab       | Definition                                                                                                                                       | Synonyms    | How to Use in a Sentence                                                                                                                                                                  |

Author: Hm, I've gotten the feedback that when I used to write like that, it wasn't readable LOL

Also, to give an explanation (not sure if it is or isn't obvious), it's the work of a formatter

I'm happy to use a different formatter if there is a good suggestion, but this curriculum has a bunch set up around using the Prettier.io formatter, so we'd need to consider how to move forward from that

> | Vocab       | Definition                                                                                                                                       | Synonyms    | How to Use in a Sentence                                                                                                                                                                  |

Reviewer: Oh.  If it's being done automatically, then so be it.  Just know that I'm not going to count spaces when making a suggestion! 😂

| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Constructor | A special type of method that is used when creating objects. It does not give a `return` value. It usually initializes an object's attributes.   | Initializer | "The constructor gets called every time we make a new `User` instance," "The constructor has `username` as a parameter, so we need to pass in a username whenever we initialize a `User`" |

> | `__init__`  | Python's specific method name for the constructor                                                                                                | -           | "If I want to set up attributes, in my class definition I need to make an `__init__` method," "If I mispell `__init__`, my constructor won't work"                                        |

Author: For this (additional) dunder callout, let me get back to it. Thanks for the suggestions!

| `self`      | The conventional name for a variable that refers to an instance itself. For instance methods in Python, this must always be the first parameter. | -           | "We access attributes through `self`," "We assign attributes through `self`"                                                                                                              |

## When Do We Make a Class?

Classes represent _things_, _ideas_, _concepts_, or _other kinds of nouns_ that are relevant to the problem at hand.

> Developers define classes after realizing that encapsulating (organizing) state and behavior into one data type will make problem-solving easier.

Author: ```suggestion
Developers define classes after realizing that encapsulating (bundling together) state and behavior into one data type will make problem-solving easier.
```

Gonna fight to keep "realizing" -- I want to cater to students who wouldn't feel confident to say that they've "made a decision" while doing this kind of work (even though they totally can make the decision! "Decisions" in this context sounds heavier and more confident than it should)

## Defining Classes

Once we've determined a class name and its responsibility, we can define a class with this syntax:

```python
class ClassName:
    pass
```

| Piece of Code | Notes                                                                                                                                                                               |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `class`       | A keyword that indicates that a class definition is beginning                                                                                                                       |
| `ClassName`   | **Replace this** with the name of the class you're defining. The PEP-8 style guide prefers CapitalCamel case for class names. Class names should be singular nouns.                 |
| `:`           | Don't forget the colon to indicate the beginning of the class body                                                                                                                  |

> | Class body    | Code that describes the class definition. It should be indented once into the class. The class body will include attributes and methods (functions) to describe state and behavior. |

Author: About `pass`: Nowhere in the current C15 curriculum yet. Instead of forcing a paragraph about `pass` somewhere where I don't feel confident, I wanna wait out and see if students **and instructors ;) ** can get through that hurdle through means other than the written curriculum. For a future iteration I hope to have better data.

This may seem like overengineering for one keyword that can be defined in one, maybe two, MAYBE three sentences, but idk, I'm pretty curious.

(AKA I think that dedicating a whole paragraph to `pass` out of context, where a student will find the need to context-switch and then re-read the paragraph, look up an example, consider why it's useful (how do you describe writing stubs to a newbie and make it worth their time) and then commit it to memory which might take up to 15 minutes, when I'm curious about finding a way to make that... 2 minutes. And my current idea is that going "oh idk what `pass` is" could be one way to make it 2 minutes)

<!-- Question 1 -->

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
### !challenge

* type: code-snippet
* language: python3.6
* id: mpLd4O
* title: Define an Empty Class

##### !question

Define a class named "Driver". It is responsible for representing a vehicle driver in a ride-share app. The class body should be empty, aka use `pass`

##### !end-question

##### !tests

```py
import unittest
from main import *

class TestDriverClass(unittest.TestCase):
  def test_driver_is_defined(self):
    self.assertTrue(Driver())
```

##### !end-tests

##### !explanation

The implementation we were expecting is this:

```python
class Driver:
    pass
```

##### !end-explanation

### !end-challenge
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

## The Constructor

We will eventually use class definitions to _instantiate_ objects (aka create instances).

A class definition with an empty class body will make an empty object (even if it's a new data type).

> Many classes like to create objects with instances that have a customized, specific initial logic. In this situation, we may define a **special method** named `__init__()`, that will live inside the class definition.

Author: ```suggestion
For many problems, we want to create object instances that have a customized _initial state_, or that perform other initialization logic as soon as they are created. When we need this behavior, we can define a **specific method** named `__init__` (pronounced formally as "dunder init", or casually as "init") as part of the class body.
```

Proposing a new beginning, simply to make "It's often useful to be able to". I'm not very tied to this, I might end up accepting the other suggestion.

> Many classes like to create objects with instances that have a customized, specific initial logic. In this situation, we may define a **special method** named `__init__()`, that will live inside the class definition.

Reviewer: What about just "It's often useful to".  Re-reading the suggestion, the "to be able" doesn't add anything but syllables to the sentence.

As an aside, my inherent reaction to reading "we want" as part of a justification for some functionality is "don't you tell me what I want!"  That's why I tend to rephrase to the more passive observation instead.

```python
class ClassName:

    def __init__(self):
        pass
```

The `__init__` method:

- Uses the exact same syntax for defining a function
- Must be named `__init__`; Python looks for this exact name

> - Runs whenever we instantiate ("use") this class
> - Contains any logic that should be run whenever we instantiate ("use") this class

Author: ```suggestion
- Runs whenever we instantiate (create a new instance of) this class
- Contains any logic that should be run whenever we instantiate (create a new instance of) this class
```

- **Must always take at least one parameter,** because it's special
  - The first parameter **always** represents an instance itself. Details below.
  - This parameter is typically named `self`
- Does not need to return anything (and should not return anything)

For example, consider this `Album` class, that will print a message whenever an `Album` is instantiated:

```python
class Album:

    def __init__(self):
        print("Hello! I print whenever a new Album is initialized")
```

<!-- Question 2 -->

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
### !challenge

* type: code-snippet
* language: python3.6
* id: Fshbd5
* title: Constructor method

##### !question

Replace `pass` and add in the `__init__` method for this `Driver` class. In the `__init__` method, print out the string `"This init method runs every time a new Driver is instantiated!"`

##### !end-question

##### !placeholder

```python
class Driver:
    pass
```

##### !end-placeholder

##### !tests

```py
import unittest
from main import *

class TestDriverClass(unittest.TestCase):
  def test_driver_is_defined(self):
    self.assertTrue(Driver())
```

##### !end-tests

#### !explanation

> Actually, this test will pass as long as there's a `Driver` class; it's challenging to write a test that verifies that the `__init__` method exists.

Author: We can! I won't put effort into this right now but I'm making a note of it.

##### !end-explanation

### !end-challenge
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

### !callout-info

## "init" Is For Initialize

We can describe the `__init__` method as a "class constructor," "constructor method," or "initializer." These names are used for any special method that runs once whenever an object is instantiated.

### !end-callout

## In Classes, We Can Access `self`

In class definitions, in the `__init__` method and other instance methods, we will need to use a _special_ variable named `self`.

Python wants to give instances the ability to reference itself with a variable. For example, as we write code to define the `Album` class, we may think about the "Dirty Computer" album. If we want to write code for "Dirty Computer" having its own state and behavior, we want a variable that represents "Dirty Computer" itself.

> This variable is almost always named `self`. Technically, this variable can have any name, but most Pythonists will use `self`.

Author: ```suggestion
By convention, this parameter is almost always named `self`. Technically, the parameter could have any name, but most Pythonists stick with `self`.
```

Seeing how it looks without the last bit; I don't doubt they need motivation, but at this moment of curriculum, I want the conformity to be the virtue itself (not the empathizing with Pythonists sticking with something because it's what most other Pythonists expect).

Weirdly subtle, but I don't want a brain to go, "wait, should I be thinking about what other Pythonists expect? Am I not a Pythonist if I haven't been doing that?" (At this point in the curriculum, I'd want that questioning to stop at "readability is a virtue/principle in itself" and not a "Pythonists think this is readable so if you don't think it's readable then you're not doing something correctly")

> This variable is almost always named `self`. Technically, this variable can have any name, but most Pythonists will use `self`.

Reviewer: But there are plenty of readable names that could be used (this, me, myself). Even the original text says that most Pythonists use self, so it _is_ implying there's a convention. But I'm fine with not hitting the reader over the head with it. 😉

`self` must **always** be the first parameter to any instance method. `__init__` is an instance method. We'll see more examples of this when exploring instance methods.

### !callout-info

> ## An Analogy for `self`: The Pronoun "I"
> 
> In the English language, there is the pronoun "I." Each person uses the pronoun "I" to describe themselves. However, "I" doesn't point to the same person in every context; "I" always means the person who is saying it!
> 
> Exactly like that, the variable `self` will exist in every instance. However, the value of `self` will always mean the instance itself.

Author: ```suggestion
## An Analogy for `self`: The Pronoun "I"

In the English language, there is the pronoun "I." Each person uses the pronoun "I" to describe themselves. However, "I" doesn't refer to the same person in every context. "I" always means the person who is saying it!

Exactly like that, the `self` parameter exists for every instance method. However, the value of `self` always means the current instance itself.
```

Fighting for the awkward "In the English language" bit -- I've hinted at this with other feedback, but when doing minor context switches (in this case, Python and OOP to the English language), I really enjoy using an awkward phrase that's very "IN YOUR FACE! SUBTLE CONTEXT SWITCH!" as a way to signal the reader to slow down and realize we're switching contexts.

Basically, "The English language has the pronount "I."" is very smooth, and I want it to be a little rough. I want the first thing the reader to think about is "The English language" and go "wait, uh, what do I think is the english language" and then see "there is the pronoun "I"".

"The English language has the pronoun "I."" comes across as so smooth, it comes across as a dense piece of information to take in, imo, and this isn't the place where we need dense information... we need the brain to be lifted into a kinda-weird space to make room for the analogy, not necessarily new technical information.

---

Minor and unrelated-- I was tempted to suggest

> However, "I" doesn't refer to the same person in every context- "I" always means the person who is saying it!

You had originally suggested a `.` instead of a `;`. Idk....... I'm still trying to learn how to write well, but I want some sort of connecting punctuation, not a full stop? This isn't very consequential so I won't fight for it :)

> Exactly like that, the variable `self` will exist in every instance. However, the value of `self` will always mean the instance itself.

Reviewer: We unofficially have spoken about ; before.  And I want to reiterate that every time I've seen you use it, it has been used correctly, and I love each and every one! My concern had been that a lot of people don't know how to use them, and can be confused at why there is a ; instead of a full stop.  Eventually over the course of this review, I acquiesced to your ; mastery and started letting them by. I think I eventually hit a sentence that was just too painful to change to a full stop. 😄 

And in retrospect, I do agree that the suggested opening does come off as very grammarphilic.  And I will do my best to bear in mind your desire to SHAKE THINGS UP at context switches. 😄

### !end-callout

## Attributes: Variables on `self`

> Recall that **attributes** are pieces of data. In classes, they are pieces of data that become attached to each instance. Attributes maintain _state_. We want to write generic attributes in our class definitions.

Author: I love it! Thanks! And you nailed it!

To give context:

I've seen many students go "Okay when I make a class, how do I know what attributes the class should have? If I have a `Trip` class, should I make `start_date` and `end_date` attributes?" which to me has always indicated an inadequate understanding of what attributes are... I think I was trying to anticipate that question with giving a definition of attribute centered on "the attributes will be what's useful and "generic" (I know) to the class"

> Recall that **attributes** are pieces of data. In classes, they are pieces of data that become attached to each instance. Attributes maintain _state_. We want to write generic attributes in our class definitions.

Reviewer: Hmm, then I feel like the suggestion misses a key point in what you wanted to express. Something that gives us permission to emphasize how flexible attributes are and that we can add as many as we need...  Maybe add a sentence like this?  Or maybe that reads as a little redundant?

```suggestion
Recall that **attributes** hold pieces of data relevant to a class. These pieces of data are attached to particular object instances. The collection of attributes attached to an object holds that instance's _state_. We can add to the state any attributes that we feel are necessary to capture the important features of a class.

We define the attributes of an object instance in the instance methods of a class definition, usually in `__init__`. 
```

> Recall that **attributes** are pieces of data. In classes, they are pieces of data that become attached to each instance. Attributes maintain _state_. We want to write generic attributes in our class definitions.

Author: Miracle worker <- you

| Driver | Total amount of money earned | A driver with ID `DR0004`, 3 rides, who has earned $35, has an average rating of 4.67 | `35`                           |
| Album  | Release date                 | Dirty Computer                                                                        | `"2018"`                       |

Because attributes have a close relationship to an instance, attributes will look and act exactly like variables... but they are assigned through `self`. Our syntax for reading and writing attributes will include `self`.

Read through this example. Then, read through the next sections to read about it in detail.

```python
class Album:

    def __init__(self):
        self.title = "Purple Rain"
        print(f"We can also read the value of the title attribute")
        print(f"by writing self.title: {self.title}")
```

When we make an instance of this class `Album`, it will print this:

```
We can also read the value of the title attribute
by writing self.title: Purple Rain
```

### Writing Attributes Inside of a Class

Inside of a class definition, we can assign values to an attribute with this syntax:

```python

> self.attribute_name = new_value

Author: ```suggestion
self.attribute_name = value_expression
```

> self.attribute_name = new_value
> ```
> 
> ... where `attribute_name` is the name of the attribute, and `new_value` is the new value.

Author: ```suggestion
self.attribute_name = value_expression
```

... where `self` was the name we gave to the required first parameter of the instance method, `attribute_name` is the name of the attribute, and `new_value` is the new value.
```

@anselrognlie for visibility

Author: Oh

We can assign and re-assign attributes in the `__init__` method and inside any other instance method (details in another lesson!).

> In the above example, we assign the attribute `title` to `"Purple Rain"` with:

Author: Thank you!

An implementation that works is this:

```python
class Driver:

    def __init__(self):
        self.total_earnings = 35
```

##### !end-explanation

### !end-challenge
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

## Revisiting the Constructor

We can combine attributes and constructors to make a really useful pattern.

### We Can Add More Parameters to the Constructor

The constructor can take in more parameters in addition to `self`. Additional parameters in the constructor will mean we'll expect arguments whenever we instantiate. We'll actually pass in real arguments at the time of making an instance!

```python
class ClassName:

    def __init__(self, apples, oranges, bananas, mangos):
        print("At the time of instantiation, we will")
        print("need to pass in values for apples, oranges, bananas, and mangos.")
        print("We can read parameters just like any other parameters/variables:")
        print(f"Look! {apples}, {oranges}, {bananas}, {mangos}")
```

We can use any valid syntax here, such as making optional arguments!

### Common Pattern: Initialize Attributes

A common pattern in OOP will use two things:

1. We'll define parameters needed for every instance of a class

> 2. We'll use those parameters and make them attributes in the constructor method

Author: Thank you! This is awesome, I really appreciate this suggestion and I like learning from it.

Idk if this is obvious, but I really want to keep lil bits like this very much feeling like "we should feel comfy following these directions" and avoid making it feel like "do this and don't think about it."

I tried to do that with the "We'll define," "we'll use," etc, but what you've suggested is more successful

> 2. We'll use those parameters and make them attributes in the constructor method

Reviewer: We could swap to "where we'll:"  to bring back a little folxiness...

  - We access these attributes with `self.title`, `self.release_date`, and `self.track_list`
- Inside of `__init__`, we assign these attributes to the parameters
- Note that there aren't rules about naming parameters:
  - The parameter `title` and the attribute `title` have the same name. The difference is that the parameter is a local variable, and the attribute is accessed with `self.title`
  - The parameter `tracks` and the attribute `track_list` do not have the same name.
- `self` must _still_ be the first parameter

<!-- Question 4 -->

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
### !challenge

* type: code-snippet
* language: python3.6
* id: wUph47
* title: Assign Attributes in the Constructor

##### !question

In this `Driver` class:

1. Create a constructor method with the following parameters in this exact order:
    - `self`
    - id
    - total earnings
    - list of trips
    - average rating
1. Inside the constructor, create the following attributes with these exact names:
    - `id`
    - `total_earnings`
    - `trips`
    - `avg_rating`
1. Inside the constructor, assign these attributes with the appropriate value

##### !end-question

##### !placeholder

```py

> # Note: the word "id" may be highlighted because the Learn platform believes it's reserved

Author: Adding this as a note for something to clean up in the future
